[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You are listening to the
Jaw Clenching Mind Talk audio.
In a moment, the
hypnosis will begin.
But before it
does, I'd just like
to remind you that the
following audio contains
powerful hypnotic
suggestions that
aim to help you reach a
deep level of relaxation.
So please be sure that
wherever you are listening
to this audio, you're in a
safe and comfortable place,
free from distractions, where
you can fully relax and let go.
Please don't listen to this
if you're driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you and you'll
easily come out of hypnosis.
Do remember to listen
to this Mind Talk audio
several times to get the
most impact from the audio.
And please don't
forget to rate how
you feel after each session.
But right now,
there's nothing at all
you need to do apart
from close your eyes,
relax, and let go,
and really enjoy
those peaceful feelings and all
the benefits that come with it.
Make yourself as
comfortable as possible.
And concentrate on
the sound of my voice.
And begin by drawing in
a long, slow, deep breath
in through your nose.
Hold the breath for a moment.
And now slightly open your
mouth and release all the air
from your body in a
long, low, deep sigh.
And relax allowing your
lungs to naturally deflate
as your body sinks into
gentle relaxation now.
And you can release any tension.
Relax and let go as I
guide you through a journey
of relaxation, a journey that
you will find very beneficial
for your overall well-being.
You're going to start
this calming experience
by first relaxing your
whole body-mind system.
And it's true to say that the
simple act of relaxing the body
and mind has a positive knock-on
effect, because how you think
determines how you feel.
And how you feel influences
the world around you.
And how you choose
to think today
affects your decisions
from here on in.
So to make my
assurances your reality,
let's begin by
focusing your attention
at the very top of your head.
Attention often starts at
the scalp and the neck.
So mentally and physically,
allow all the muscles
around the top of your
head to relax now.
Letting all the tension
simply dissolve.
As you start to tune into
your body-mind system,
just that any tension you may
be holding to release now.
Allow your brain to relax,
the left and the right
lobes of the brain
just releasing.
Such a simple thought, yet so
profound and so significant.
Just letting go completely.
Drifting further and further
down, nobody wanting anything.
Nobody needing anything.
This is your time to relax.
Taking the relaxation
into the face now allowing
all of your facial
muscles to feel loose.
Feel your brow relaxing,
your forehead smoothing out,
the back of your eyes
relaxing, tiny muscles
around your eyes and eyelids,
down into your cheeks
and into your jaw muscles.
Just releasing and letting go.
Allowing your
tongue to fall away
from the roof of your mouth.
And should you find you need
to swallow, just do that
now and drift down, and
down, deeper, and deeper
into blissful relaxation.
The more you physically
relax, the more
you can mentally relax.
And when you can
mentally relax, you
can think much more clearly.
And when you think more clearly,
your life becomes clearer.
You make better decisions.
And you're much more in
control of your days.
So noticing now how
your neck feels.
Relaxing all the little muscles.
Letting go of the strain.
Letting go of the tension.
Allow that tension that you
may be holding in your shoulder
to go now.
Feel those shoulders,
both of them,
sinking into the
frame of your body.
Feel your neck lengthen
as you do this.
Feel, or imagine, all
your cares and worry just
rolling off your
shoulders now as you
take the relaxation down, now,
into the tops of your homes.
Letting any tension you may
be holding just drain away.
And as your awareness floats
down through your upper arms
into your elbows, all the
muscles in your forearms
relax right down to your
wrists, and into your hands,
and way down into the very tips
of your fingers and thumbs.
Your arms are feeling so heavy.
Your body's so comfortable.
Nothing whatsoever
to do but just
relax and enjoy this feeling
of total release now.
As you let go of all the
tension in those muscles,
you may experience them becoming
calmer and gently releasing.
And just tune into the
feeling of simply letting go.
As you become aware
of your breathing,
notice that you are now
breathing steadily and slowly,
more rhythmically.
And with each exhale,
you feel yourself
just relaxing even
more deeply, allowing
any tension in the chest area
now to simply drain away,
letting go completely
and totally.
Bring awareness into
your stomach now.
And let all your
stomach muscles relax.
And as you do, I
want you to imagine
a ball of sunlight passing
down from the top of your head
down through your face, your
throat, and into your stomach.
Visualize this healing
energy passing down
through your throat and
chest and into your stomach.
So see and feel the sunlight
swirling and rotating.
And as the light glows, it
warms, and soothes, and heals.
And you release, and relax, and
drift down, and further down.
And in your imagination,
you send the sunlight out
now to every nerve cell,
bone, muscle, fiber,
and system of the body.
See it flowing through
the bloodstream
and leave the light.
It knows what to do.
As you take the relaxation
round into your back muscles,
and from your back muscles
it relaxes those muscles
either side of the spine.
Releasing, relaxing,
and just letting go now.
Deeper and deeper now.
As you relax your
waist and the muscles
of your lower stomach and
down into the pelvic area, all
the way down through
the large thigh muscles,
down through your knees,
your shins, and your calves,
just allow all those areas of
the body to relax and let go.
You're so relaxed, so
heavy, so comfortable.
And now tune into that
comfortable feeling
as you think on down to your
ankles and to your feet,
right down to the very
tips of your toes.
All the muscles of your body
now so beautifully relaxed.
And you feel very heavy
and very comfortable.
And you're feeling centered, and
relaxed, and fully in control.
If there are any
areas of your body
that still feel
tight or tense, you
find that you can relax them
simply by giving yourself
permission to do so.
And you can now go even
deeper as I count down
from eight to zero.
And with every number, you
feel yourself drifting further
into blissful relaxation.
So 8, 7, 6, 5, deeper now, 4, 3.
2, 1, and 0.
Deeply relaxed, letting
go of all the cares
and worries, all the tension
and pressure, and stresses
and strains.
Let them all ease from your
body and ease from your mind
and allow yourself to drift down
into a deeper and more blissful
state of creative relaxation.
Now in your
imagination, I'd like
you to imagine that
you're standing
on the top of a hill
on a beautiful island.
And it's a lovely,
warm summer's day.
There's a clear, blue
sky, not a cloud in sight.
And the temperature is
just how you like it.
You can feel the gentle
warmth of the sun on your head
and shoulders.
And you can hear
the sounds of nature
all around you, making you
feel even more relaxed.
The long grass in the
meadow below sways slightly.
And you can see a
winding path that
disappears into a
small apple orchard,
just at the bottom of hill.
And just beyond the
orchard, you can
see the sea, the
sunlight darting off
the tops of the waves
and the whole ocean
shimmering and sparkling.
You begin to move easily
down the path now,
noticing the grass
springing under your feet
pushing you encouragingly
towards your destination.
And you catch the faint smell
of sea air in the breeze
as you get closer
to the ocean now.
As you stroll down,
down the winding path
and you move
smoothly and easily.
And you feel relaxed, and
centered, and fully in control.
And you're becoming aware now
of the growing calm within you.
You stop to look at the
beautiful flowers growing
each side of the path, their
colors so vivid and bright.
And you stand there for a
moment, taking in the view.
A feeling of happiness flows
through you, continuing down.
You're aware now of a deep sense
of calmness and tranquility
right from the top of your
head to the tips of your toes,
renewing your energy,
feeling wonderful.
As you walk, you find yourself
almost floating as though
in a dream now down
towards the orchard.
You move with such ease
with no effort whatsoever.
And in no time,
you find yourself
drifting through
the fruit trees with
a lush, cool, green foliage
forming a canopy overhead.
And you see the
sunlight glittering
through the branches.
And as you stand there, you
feel the glittering sunlight
on your face and neck.
And you feel and
experience it vibrating
throughout your entire
body-mind system.
And as the sunlight moves, it
glows, and warms, and soothes,
and heals your body and mind.
And you release and relax
and move down and down,
taking in another deep breath.
Relaxing even more now.
You can hear the
sound of the ocean
as you move nearer and nearer.
And with every
step you take, you
feel more relaxed
and more calm as you
follow that winding path
that leads you downwards.
You turn a corner.
And to your delight,
you find yourself
on a beautiful, deserted beach.
The beach sweeping away into
a small bay in front of you.
And the ocean is a striking
turquoise blue, pure and clear.
And you can feel the warm
sand underneath your shoes.
And you take your shoes off.
And you start walking
lazily across the beach
to the water's edge.
You feel the sand
beneath your feet.
And you feel the
sand change from cool
to moist beneath your feet as
you wander along the shoreline.
As you turn around,
you start to walk up
the beach towards
a grassy mound.
And as you walk up slowly, you
take in the smell of the ocean.
And you hear the
sound of the water
hissing over the warm sound.
You reach the mound
now and you sit down,
making yourself comfortable.
And as you gaze out across
the breathtaking scene,
you watch the waves roll
in and roll out again.
Rhythmically in and out again.
You play with the sand
through your fingers,
noticing just how good
you feel, so relaxed now.
So relaxed that you've opened
up your subconscious mind
and you're ready to start
making those changes
you've been wanting to
make once and for all.
And you know that
stressful situations
occur every day which may
cause us to grind our teeth.
Whenever one of these
anxiety-producing events
happen or is going to
happen, you unconsciously
grind your teeth.
And you may have found that
you grind your teeth mainly
at night time.
Your subconscious
mind remembers the
stressful or
anxiety-producing situations
which have occurred
during the day
or threaten to
occur in the future
and replays them many
times during the night.
Well you may find that
this was once the case.
And even though the anxiety has
gone, the habit has continued.
So we need to address
both the anxiety and habit
now in this session to
help you to stop grinding
your teeth once and for all.
In order to stop the habit
of clenching your jaw
and grinding your
teeth, I would like
you to retrain your muscles
in your mouth and jaws
to relax, to release,
and to loosen.
So now that you're in
this deeply relaxed state,
I would like you to
allow your breathing
to slow down and deepen.
Allow the relaxation to
spread over your forehead
so that it relaxes and becomes
smooth and comfortable.
Enjoy the feeling of
comfort and well-being.
Now allow the relaxation to
spread in and around your eyes,
down past your cheeks, all the
way to your jaws and your neck,
gently relaxing all the
little muscles as the soothing
comfort gently spreads.
And as you allow
your mouth to relax,
your muscles are soft, and
loose, limp, and relaxed.
Your lips may be gently smiling,
and you feel your tongue
relaxing completely,
naturally in your mouth
so that your whole face and head
are totally and gently relaxed
now.
Your breathing is soft and slow.
And your entire
face, mouth, and jaws
are totally relaxed
and released.
And by listening to this script
before you sleep every night,
you are retraining your
muscles to relax and to release
so they no longer automatically
tense up, whether through habit
or through anxiety, whether
in the night or in the day.
I would also like to
suggest to your subconscious
that should you feel
your jaws becoming
tense whilst you sleep,
you instinctively wake
and stop clenching.
And I'd like you now
to focus your attention
on the muscles of your jaw,
those strong muscles that
keep your jaws tight.
And I want you to
become exquisitely aware
of those muscles and to
feel them relaxing now.
Feel those muscles
releasing all the tension,
allowing you to have a
gap between your teeth,
allowing you to separate
your upper and lower jaws.
And when you're in this
state now, part of your mind
is awake, and alert,
and looking after you.
And when you're in this
state when you're sleeping,
part of your mind can
be awake, and alert,
and looking after you monitoring
those muscles and jaws
and allowing those jaw muscles
to release, relax, and loosen.
And if they were to
clench in your sleep,
your subconscious
now knows to wake you
and to once again focus on those
muscles to loosen and release.
Letting go of tension
is as easy as can be.
And each time you
feel and experience
that sense of letting
go, you go deeper
into that lovely
calm, relaxed feeling.
So every time you listen
to this audio download,
you're practicing,
you're retraining,
those muscles to release just
that little bit more now.
With your deep
breathing relaxation,
just like you're doing now
during this audio download,
you're teaching your mind to
breathe rather than clench
when you feel anxious.
By listening to this download,
you're undoing habits.
You're retraining your mind.
You're retraining your muscles.
Your focus now is on true
relaxation, long, deep breaths,
and releasing muscles,
releasing your jaw,
and releasing the muscles
in your mouth and your lips.
Remember your subconscious is a
very strong part of your mind.
And it now knows that
you will no longer
sleep through any clenching.
The more you listen to this
audio download, the more likely
your subconscious is
to be listening to you
and to allow you to wake if it
feels any tension in your jaws
at all.
And these suggestions
are now firmly embedded
in your subconscious mind.
And they grow stronger and
stronger each and every day.
And in a moment, I'm going
to count from one to five.
And at the count of five,
you'll be wide awake.
So 1, 2, 3, 4, eyes beginning
to flutter now, and 5,
returning to normality.
[MUSIC PLAYING]